---
layout: post
title: What being a data scientist means to me
---
In my opinion, what being a data scientist is about in my opinion is someone who extracts an incredibly large amount of data, cleanses it, and then uses machine learning methods
along with statistics/data analytics to then be able to create a model in a way to predict market trends for the company, etc over the coming months and years. I feel that the 
major knowledge areas for this particular field include programming in popular languages including Python, R, as well as retrieving and manipulating the data/databases in SQL. 
Data scientists must also in my opinion have a good foundation in statistics along with machine learning and AI. Some funny thing has happened to me as a student when looking for 
internships and jobs in that my parents (especially my dad who's an actuary) want me to be a statistician and I see more jobs along the lines of data science and my father once 
told me that they are the same thing when in fact I know they are not. After taking statistics classes for my masters degree at North Carolina State University I have now learned 
that there are distinct similarities and differences between the two careers. First, for the similarities between  both careers, they are focused on constructing the models to fit 
data that they want to analyze with respect to their industry. They also both use applied statistics in that they both use statistical methods and techniques for analyzing data. 
Now, the ways that a statistician and data scientist are different are that statisticians are more concerned with fitting one model using statistical techniques whereas data 
scientists use a lot of different methods and a lot more fitting and comparison in order to create the best machine learning model which is more complex than that of 
statisticians. Another difference is that statisticians more heavily rely on quantifying uncertainty which is a major part of doing statistical inference compared to data 
scientists who don't rely on that as much. One other key thing is that statisticians in my opinion are people who are just that, they have a strong statistical background (heavily 
theoretical and applied) and mostly want to apply all their knowledge in their field in the industry with experience with statistical programming languages such as R and SAS, 
whereas with data scientists they do more stuff related to computer science but with some applied statistical techniques so you don't necessarily have to have a strong foundation 
in statistics so you can become one with a computer science degree, etc. Another thing is that data scientists work with a huge amount of data, which could be true with a 
statistician, but it is on average a lot larger. How I view myself in relation to the two is that I think I am sort of both since I have a strong passion for the field of 
statistics and also like programming as well along with the fact I am more into fitting the best model to represent the analysis I want to do so I might say I am a little more 
leaned towards statistician than data scientist but have qualities of a data scientist as well since I love applying my knowledge of statistics and analyzing complex problems. So 
I feel that for my career path (i.e. how I view myself in relation to the similarities and differences between the two) I would be flexible with either data science or just being 
a statistician.
