Programming Background
================
Brennan Clinch
9/13/2021

``` r
rmarkdown::render("../_Rmd/2021-09-12-Second-Blog.Rmd",
                  output_format = "github_document",
                  output_dir = "../_posts/",
                  output_options=list(html_preview= FALSE, keep_html= FALSE)
)
```

## My Background

I have had experience with many different programming languages
especially throughout my undergraduate and graduate career in
Statistics. My thoughts on R compared to other programming languages
used for data analyisis is that I like using it the most compared to
other languages I’ve used (Python and SAS) but I do feel other languages
have their advantages vs disadvantages too. The functionality I like
about R is that it is open source and free in which it doesn’t require
any licenses or anything which cost a lot of money (SAS for example),
and it also can give you interface to other things such as github, etc.
I also like that it isn’t as complicated as SAS is in that you don’t
have to place different things in different areas to do what you want it
to do (ex: stuff on basic metadata will go in proc contents, stuff on
data management and manipulation will go in a data step, etc), and it
isn’t like python how you need to know the data science packages to do
all the analysis. Only one thing I dislike about R compared to other
languages is that it takes several lines of code to do a simple task
sometimes and I like that with some other programming languages for
statistical software such as SAS and Python the process isn’t as tedious
for creating variables, etc. I feel that behind Python, R is the easiest
language to learn. My ranking from easiest to hardest programming
languages to learn in Statistics would be R, then Python, then SAS as
the hardest. I did know R prior to the course since I took a few upper
level statistics courses my final semesters during my undergraduate
career and they all used R to do things such as regression analysis. I
felt it wasn’t too bad since the professors guided us on the functions
to use when doing the labs and homework, but this course is the first
time I am really learning R programming besides just using it for
applied statistics. Overall, R is a good programming language to learn
and it is a must have if you want to get a job in data science behind
python which is the most in demand language.

## Example code output in R Markdown

``` r
plot(mtcars)
```
![](images/unnamed-chunk-3-1.png) 
